# D.H. Lineardo

Kinematics deals with the spatial locations and velocities of a robot's end effectors and its internal joints. There are two parts to it, namely: forward and inverse kinematics. After studying composite rotations, homogeneous coordinates, doing a lot of matrix multiplication of paper, and (finally!) understanding the D.H. notation, I bring to you, D.H. Lineardo🎨 . It's a simulation of a 2D RR robot in MATLAB. When I ran the script for the first time, I noticed that my random theta equations were making an infinity symbol. So I plotted the locus of the points, and ✨voilà✨. Playing around with different equations to vary the symbolic variable 'theta' resulted into different shapes. That's where my sketchy (pun intended) arm got its name from. 

 
BUT that was hit-or-miss logic to draw shapes. So, I sent it to school. Now, it uses inverse kinematics to converge to the desired position.💡 Inverse kinematics finds the values for the joint variables 'q' that satisfy the arm equation, given a desired position 'p' and orientation 'R' for the tool. I used the numerical solution of Newton-Raphson iteration algorithm to implement the inverse kinematics relation for my configuration. In real-time scenarios, numerical methods are faster than the closed-form solution from a computation perspective. An important concept used in the algorithm is the Jacobian matrix. It is the matrix that maps the relationship between the tool configuration velocity and joint space velocity. 
